Please see ChangeLog for the latest NEWS.

v1.9.8 (Sep 30, 2019)
 * Various bug fixes - please see ChangeLog for the detailed list of changes
 
v1.9.5 (Aug 11, 2018)
 * Various bug fixes - please see ChangeLog for the detailed list of changes

v1.9.4 (Aug 11, 2018)
 * Avoid misleading message if cmd socket is in use

v1.9.3 (Aug 10, 2018)
 I (Jirka Hladky) took over haveged upstream development and moved it to GiHub
 https://github.com/jirka-h/haveged
 This version implements a command mode and use it for chroot -it was
 contributed by Dr. Werner Fink.

v1.9.2 (Nov 16, 2017)

   This release cleans up issues that have accumulated since the last release. I retired
   several years ago, and haveged is no longer under active development. This release only
   attempts to collect and document the downstream reports I have received.

v1.9.1 (Feb 11, 2014)
   Documentation and sample file touch-up for v1.9.

v1.9   (Feb 10, 2014)

   A Fedora bugzilla request was received to harden the haveged build. Since haveged has
   traditionally been fussy with compiler options, Jirka Hladky set up a large scale test
   using using TestU01's BigCrush and PractRand. A normally harmless bug inadvertently sent
   the 8TB data sets through the haveged run-time continuous test. This accident revealed
   many problems with the run-time test implementation, including incorrect test defaults
   based on app/daemon selection, broken dead man limit in test procedure B, broken retry
   logic, and implementation bugs in both test procedure A and B. Attempting to diagnose
   these problems also revealed the injection feature of the diagnostic build was also
   broken.

   Once the injection facility was fixed, an independent implementation of the AIS reference
   for procedure B was used to verify the haveged implementation down to bit level. Portions
   of the run-time test suite were rewritten to correct defects and improve performance of the
   run-time test suite in PIE builds. The procedure A tests were rewritten to remove the need
   to overlap the previous test to attain byte alignment - all test procedures are now bit
   oriented. Unrelated changes included in the release include adding a quick version check
   for libhavege use, many small improvements to diagnostics, and more cleanup man pages,
   sample files, and other documentation.

   Special thanks to Jirka Hladky for help in sorting out the procedure B bugs, verifying
   the haveged RNG is statistically comparable to RDRAND, and the first formal testing of
   haveged on ARM.

v1.8   (Jan 02, 2014)

   Fix return code for signaled termination. Update init.d/service.fedora to use new
   return code and simple service type. Add --enable_unitdir as DESTDIR for systemd
   install. Cleanup documentation and man file.

v1.7c  (Jun 08, 2013)

   Additional fix for run-time test alignment problems on mips.

v1.7b  (Jun 06, 2013)

   Fix run-time test alignment problems on sparc and mips. Fix ppc detection in build.

v1.7a  (Feb 13, 2013)

   Fix broken parallel builds - fix LDADD problem in build, VPATH problems in check targets.
   Move to check-local for check target to work with automake v1.13 but retain backward
   compatibility. Modify build to make tuning component optional in build. Improve sample
   spec file and docs.

v1.7   (Jan 15, 2013)

   The build has been restructured to provide a devel package. This introduces a new libtool
   dependency. The new contrib/build/build.sh script is intended to toggle this requirement
   as well as providing a bootstrap to recover from automake mismatches. The script will also
   build and run devel sample code for those interested in using the devel package.

   Other build related changes include updating AC_PREQ to a more reasonable, 2.59 and changing
   the build option for init scripts to default to --enable-init=none. The format of the
   haveged diagnostic display has changed to provided more information and the output is now
   displayed after output is generated in the non-daemon case.
